Kynlo guest post (Codyception: Coding Cody Tools With Cody For Coding With Cody) (#6708)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2024/codyception-coding-cody-tools-with-cody.md

---

> title: "Codyception: coding Cody tools with Cody for coding With Cody"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Codyception: coding Cody tools with Cody for coding with Cody"
```

authors:
  - name: Kynlo Akari
    url: https://twitter.com/Kynlos
  

> publishDate: 2024-01-29T10:00-07:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishDate: 2024-01-30T10:00-07:00
```

- `cody.json` in the home `.vscode` folder: Commands are available globally across all workspaces.

This flexibility allows you to organize project-specific commands separately from reusable commands which are accessible globally, enhancing your customization capabilities with Cody.

### Running commands made simple
Executing commands is a breeze with these options:

- Type / in the chat box and select your desired command from the pop-up list.

- Use ctrl+shift+v (cmd+shift+v on macOS) anywhere in your document to open the Command Menu, and just like magic, you can select and run commands without the chat sidebar.

- Right-click on selected code to open the Cody context menu and choose a command.

- Search for >Cody: Commands Menu in your Command Palette to access the Command Menu.

## Conclusion

Cody swiftly became my favorite AI Coding Assistant, thanks to the arsenal of available models, especially GPT-4 Turbo, and the stellar Cody Pro features. The fantastic team and vibrant community, especially on Discord, set Cody apart. Unmatched support and lightning-fast bug fixes and feature additions make Cody a coding gem.

> I hope this glimpse into Cody and the enchantment of Custom Commands sparks your curiosity. Now that you're deep into this post, you're probably itching to try these methods and commands yourself!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope this glimpse into Cody and the enchantment of Custom Commands sparks your curiosity. Now that you're deep into this post, you're probably itching to try these methods and commands yourself! [Try Cody today](https://cody.dev) for yourself. 
```

---
title: "Codyception: Coding Cody Tools With Cody For Coding With Cody"
authors:
  - name: Kynlo Akari
    url: https://twitter.com/Kynlos
  
publishDate: 2024-01-29T10:00-07:00

> description: "This post with teach you how Custom Commands in Cody can simplify your coding process by automating repetitive tasks, saving time and effort. Kynlo guide you through how these commands make coding more efficient and manageable, transforming complex tasks into simple, one-click solutions."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This post with teach you how Custom Commands in Cody can simplify your coding process by automating repetitive tasks, saving you time and effort."
```

tags: [blog]
slug: "codyception-coding-cody-tools-with-cody"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/codyception-coding-cody-tools-with-cody-v4.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/codyception-coding-cody-tools-with-cody-v4.png
---

<Alert type="secondary">This is a guest blog post from our community. <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169" target="_blank">Join our Discord</a> to meet the author and connect with other developers passionate about Code Search and AI!</Alert>

OK, I'll admit it took me longer than it should to write that title without messing up, but here we are, there that is, and here we go!

So, now that I've successfully confused half of you before I've even started, let's talk about Custom Commands with Cody.

---

> ### Friends, Coders, Netizens, lend me your snippets!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Friends, Coders, Netizens, lend me your snippets!
```

> To start with, let's delve into the significance of Custom Commands within the realm of programming and automation. These commands play a pivotal role by affording you the ability to define specific actions tailored to your precise needs. In more elementary terms, they act as a time-saving mechanism, sparing you considerable effort, especially in tasks characterized by repetition. Consider scenarios like utilizing Cody to insert specific types of comments, code editing, feature incorporation, or even language translation for entire files.  In even more simplistic terms, they let you make a button that does a thing, then you can click that button to do that thing an unlimited amount of times without having to type anything again!  Sound good? I bet it does...so let's talk about it in the context of our main man Cody.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start with, let's talk about the significance of Custom Commands within the realm of programming and automation. Commands play an important role by giving you the ability to define specific actions for your needs, saving you time. Consider scenarios like utilizing Cody to insert specific types of comments, code editing, or even language translation for entire files. In even more simplistic terms, they let you make a button that does a thing, then you can click that button to do that thing an unlimited amount of times without having to type anything again!  Sound good? I bet it does...so let's talk about it in the context of our main man Cody.
```

> The elegance of Cody lies in its seamless facilitation of the creation and integration of these commands. This capability transforms the coding landscape, rendering your journey notably more streamlined and efficient. Cody becomes a reliable companion, adept at executing nuanced coding tasks with dexterity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cody makes it easy to create and integrate custom commands into your workflow.
```

> In essence, Custom Commands serve as the virtuosos of your coding orchestra, orchestrating intricate symphonies with finesse. As you navigate the coding landscape, allow these commands to be your skilful conductors, ensuring a harmonious and efficient coding experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In essence, Custom Commands serve as the virtuosos of your coding orchestra, ensuring a harmonious and efficient coding experience.
```

I'd move this paragraph and merge it with the previous one, since it was greatly shortened

> Are you hungry for more details? Let's put away those cookbooks because we don't need recipes any more!

Reviewer: I'd delete this entirely. Most people won't be aware of the receipe/command transition. 

```suggestion

```

> ### Evolving from Recipes to Commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Commands with Cody
```

> Gone are the days of being limited to the Recipes tab and submitting pull requests. With Commands, you can effortlessly create and execute reusable prompts without opening the Chat sidebar. This improvement streamlines your workflow and eliminates the need for pull requests, making the process much smoother.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Commands, you can effortlessly create and execute reusable prompts without ever opening the Chat sidebar. This improvement streamlines your workflow and unlocks a new level of productivity.
```

**An example command JSON that would sit comfortably in your cody.json file:**

```json
    "algorithm-analysis": {
      "description": "algorithm-analysis",
      "prompt": "Analyze and document the algorithms used in the code, detailing their efficiency and how they achieve their intended purpose.",
      "context": {
        "codebase": true,
        "selection": true,
        "currentFile": true
      }
```

> This would then be called in your editor with a slash command: `/implement-code-analytics-tracking`

Reviewer: Hmm the slash command is different from the above JSON?

Author: Good catch

## Getting Started with Custom Commands

![](http://cody.kynlo.co.uk/1.png)

> To make your life (and mine) easier with getting started with Custom Commands, I [created a handy little tool](https://cody.kynlo.co.uk) for you to use that will generate these commands (which are structured in JSON) based on what you need them to do!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [create Custom Commands](https://sourcegraph.com/docs/cody/capabilities/commands#custom-commands) directly in Visual Studio Code. But, to make your life easier with getting started with Custom Commands, I [created a handy little tool](https://cody.kynlo.co.uk) that you can use to generate custom commands!
```

![](http://cody.kynlo.co.uk/codykyn.png)

> Now, nobody is forcing you *hides the pool noodle* to use my little tool, and you are absolutely free to go create these manually!  There's [highly detailed documentation](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/Tm90ZWJvb2s6MzA1NQ==#custom-commands-194e6b3f-f682-475f-9c66-cfcc84d05c66) written by the amazing [beatrix](https://twitter.com/3eatrix), for those who want to dive even deeper into all of that beautiful behind-the-scenes code!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, nobody is forcing you *hides the pool noodle* to use my tool, and you are absolutely free to go create these manually!  There's [highly detailed documentation](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/Tm90ZWJvb2s6MzA1NQ==#custom-commands-194e6b3f-f682-475f-9c66-cfcc84d05c66) written by the amazing [beatrix](https://twitter.com/3eatrix), for those who want to dive even deeper into all of that beautiful behind-the-scenes code!
```

```json
    "implement-code-localization-support": {
      "description": "implement-code-localization-support",
      "prompt": "Implement code localization support in the current project, enabling adaptation to different languages and cultural preferences.",
      "context": {
        "codebase": true
      }
    },
    "check-code-code-smells": {
      "description": "check-code-code-smells",
      "prompt": "Check and identify code smells in the current project, suggesting refactoring for improved code quality.",
      "context": {
        "codebase": true
      }
    },
    "evaluate-code-external-apis": {
      "description": "evaluate-code-external-apis",
      "prompt": "Evaluate and report on the usage and reliability of external APIs in the current project, suggesting updates or replacements.",
      "context": {
        "codebase": true
      }
    },
    "implement-code-database-indexing": {
      "description": "implement-code-database-indexing",
      "prompt": "Implement code database indexing strategies in the current project, optimizing data retrieval and query performance.",
      "context": {
        "codebase": true
      }
```

> ## The cody.json File: Tailoring Commands to Your Needs ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The cody.json File: Tailoring Commands to Your Needs
```

Customizing commands is made easy with the `cody.json` file. Here's how you can leverage it:

> ### Project-Specific Commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Project-specific commands:
```

> Create `cody.json` in the `.vscode` directory of your project to make commands accessible only in that workspace. Cody will execute these custom commands when working on the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `cody.json` in the `.vscode` directory of your project to make commands accessible only in that workspace. Cody will have access to these custom commands when working on the project.
```

### Global commands:

> Create a new `cody.json` file in the `.vscode` directory of your home directory for commands accessible across multiple projects. Cody will be able to execute these global custom commands in any workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new `cody.json` file in the `.vscode` directory of your home directory for commands accessible across multiple projects. Cody will have access to these global custom commands in any workspace.
```

### Workspace vs. User Commands

Understanding the scope of your custom commands is essential:

- `cody.json` in a project's `.vscode` folder: Commands are available only in that workspace.
- `cody.json` in the home `.vscode` folder: Commands are available globally across all workspaces.

> This flexibility allows you to organize project-specific commands separately from reusable commands accessible globally, enhancing your customization capabilities with Cody.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This flexibility allows you to organize project-specific commands separately from reusable commands which are accessible globally, enhancing your customization capabilities with Cody.
```

> ## Cody's custom commands syntax

Reviewer: Was there supposed to be a paragraph or more content here?

Author: That was a left over, now removed

### Running commands made simple
Executing commands is a breeze with these options:

- Type / in the chat box and select your desired command from the pop-up list.

- Use ctrl+shift+v (cmd+shift+v on macOS) anywhere in your document to open the Command Menu, and just like magic, you can select and run commands without the chat sidebar.

- Right-click on selected code to open the Cody context menu and choose a command.

- Search for >Cody: Commands Menu in your Command Palette to access the Command Menu.

> ## How I created the commands for [Codyception](https://cody.kynlo.co.uk) with the help of Cody ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How I created the commands for [Codyception](https://cody.kynlo.co.uk) with the help of Cody
```

> Alright, buckle up for the extended saga of how I thrust Codyception into the coding cosmos. Picture this: innocently pondering the idea of Cody creating commands for me. It all started with a simple thought, "Hey, wouldn't it be cool?" But like any curious coder, I couldn't resist pushing the boundaries. "Hmm, is there a limit to these commands before something breaks?" I wondered. Little did I know, the quest for limits would propel me into a coding odyssey of epic proportions.

Reviewer: I would remove or rework the rest of this to focus on the technology rather than the humor. I think the message really gets lost in the content.

Author: 👍
